## Requirements for Edge Computing

When we want to allow compute and storage capabilities to exist at the edge we need to overcome a number of challenges that distributing this capacity presents.  Most traditional IT technologies do not allow for this as they have been built to live in large datacenters where there is a lot of “care” for these technologies.

The largest generic hurdle to overcome is that at the edge there is going to be a lot less “care” for the technology to rely on.  These “devices” have to be self sufficient to a large degree.  If we want to sum up some of the specifics of edge technology this would come out:



*   A typical edge device or node must run an OS which comes in at a low cost or ideally for free like some of the open source offerings. This enhances proliferation of capacity at the edge. 
*   Container technology must be embedded in the OS at the lowest possible level to  create the maximum benefit of efficiency from the edge hardware: classic Virtual Machine environments are just to inefficient and resource consuming for edge use cases. There will be Virtual Machine based edge solutions but these are going to be out there for a certain period of time, catering for current IT workloads to move to the edge.  The true move for the edge can only happen when traditional IT applications are broken up into pieces which require a lot less capacity to run.  Hence is will convert over time to container technology.
*   Edge Computing hardware will consist of datacenter grade hardware and all sorts of other types of hardware.  The edge might include some smaller sized data center facilities but will for sure also include other types of “homes” for compute and storage equipments.  Think of transportation as a specific use case - capacity on seafaring vessels, capacity on trains, capacity in vehicles.  Hardware will have to accomodate different use cases,  price levels, formfactors and power consumption. 
*   Edge hardware needs a lightweight OS which is very close to the hardware components to get the maximum compute and storage capacity out of it.  No need for all sorts of fancy user interfaces - for REAL edge capacity there will be no ways for local people to interact with this piece of edge capacity - one further step into the edge computing development there will be no mode need to have remote people access to these devices for maintenance purposes.  The ultimate edge computing solution will have a large amount os self sustainability - where there are no longer technically schooled people required to keep the capacity available and up and running.
    *   Edge means in most cases being remote and having no access to humans or humans are simply too expensive for the specific use case. 
    *   System failures will be caused by power outages and/or no network availability. The ideal OS to deal with this no people, zero touch  approach should  be stateless and needs to have self healing capabilities which are run by automation software robots