## Where can we get inspiration to do it a different way?

What if we could build IT architectures in a different way.  What if we would not accept component solution approaches anymore and would start over with a complete blank sheet of paper?  Would we then come up with a different way of actually building automation, architectures and business models?

### Looking at nature for inspiration

Let’s start with looking for inspiration in nature. If we consider IT systems to be a complex system, are there any parallels that we can draw to systems that exist in nature and have evolved and improved over thousands of years compared to a few decades of improvement in the IT industry.

In nature, we see two kinds if systems (societies) being used: centralised and decentralized systems.  Examples of centralized systems are hurds/groups of animals living together where there is a hierarchy in the way they organize themselves and for decentralized systems, we can look at beehives and anthills.  The two different kinds of organising effort and benefit work, but in very different ways and to very different cost, efficiency and benefit structures.

### Centralised systems in nature

In centralised systems, there is governance of activities, wealth positions etc.  Think of a group of lions or chimpanzees.  There is always an alpha male, who is dominant to the whole group.  He is the only that enjoys all of the benefits because the whole group/structure works towards his wishes.  He gets to mate with most female group members because the system believes that he has the strongest genes to help the group to exist in the future, he gets most of the food that is found or killed the group and if he doesn’t get it he will claim it by showing his dominance and fight for it.  All the others are working towards this alpha male and all the other males in the group will occasionally challenge the alpha male for dominance.  This is very similar to how the IT industry has been operating to date:  there are a few alpha males in the industry - one for each sector that can be recognised (for example in cloud you have Amazon, Google, Microsoft and on the system integration front you have Dell, Siemens, CA Technologies).  They end up with the majority of business available in their specific market when challenged by new companies they fight them (in every way possible including killing them or acquiring them). And in analogy to the animal group, these alpha male companies have a lot of organisations that work with them usually called "partners" or “channels”.

### Decentralised systems in nature

For decentralised systems on a Wikipedia [page](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Decentralised_system) we learn:: "One of the most well-known examples of a "natural" decentralized system is one used by certain insect colonies. In these insect colonies, control is distributed among the homogeneous biological agents who act upon local information and local interactions to collectively create complex, global behaviour. While individually exhibiting simple behaviours, these agents achieve global goals such as feeding the colony or raising the brood by using dynamical mechanisms like non-explicit communication and exploiting their closely coupled action and perception systems. Without any form of central control, these insect colonies achieve global goals by performing required tasks, responding to changing conditions in the colony environment in terms of task-activity, and subsequently adjusting the number of workers performing each task to ensure that all tasks are completed. For example, ant colonies guide their global behaviour (in terms of foraging, patrolling, brood care, and nest maintenance) using a pulsing, shifting web of spatio-temporal patterned interactions that rely on antennal contact rate and olfactory sensing. While these interactions consist of both interactions with the environment and each other, ants do not direct the behaviour of other ants and thus never have a "central controller" dictating what is to be done to achieve global goals."

So nature has provided us with solid examples of centralised and decentralised systems.  For much of what works in the modern world, we have ended up using the centralised model, governing of enterprises and countries.  Various type of industries have also adopted the centralised model where there exists a pyramid structure and everything works towards the alpha males.
